- [Instructor] Something not well documented
in the Spring Data website
but well followed in the community
is the read-only repository pattern.
It is a conceivable scenario where you want to
restrict the repository from invoking
certain default Crud repository methods.
We can accomplish this by creating
a no-repository bean interface.
So how do we do that?
First, we create a new interface and name it appropriately
read-only repository or write-only repository for example
and extend it from repository, not Crud repository.
Next we annotate the interface with @NoRepositoryBean.
This tells the Spring repository scanner
not to instantiate a class for this interface.
It's purely an interface and will remain so.
Lastly we add the signatures of the allowed methods.
The signature must exactly match the signature
of the permitted Crud repository method.
Now we are ready to extend from this repository.
In this example, we are restricting repository methods
to just read methods of a Crud repository.
I've named it ReadOnlyRespository,
extended it from repository
and matches the same signatures and bounded types.
If we already knew the ID types for the entities,
for example integer,
we could put that in instead of the ID parameter.
Take a moment to read the methods.
Notice that the save and delete methods
from Crud repository are admitted.
Now we are ready to extend from Crud repository,
normally called query repositories.
So I have a course query repository
that extends from read-only repository.
The entity is course, the ID type is integer
and of course you have the original course repository,
which extends from Crud repository
that can do anything.
Although we can put query methods in either repository,
it is best to put them in course query repository
to properly follow the pattern.